.\"  Copyright 2005 André Malo or his licensors, as applicable
.\"
.\"  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\"  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"  You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\"  limitations under the License.
.\"
.TH SVN-MAILER "1" "2005" "svn-mailer 1.1.0-dev-r1373" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
svn-mailer \- A feature rich subversion commit notification tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B svn-mailer
\fB\-\-commit\fR \fB\-d\fR \fIrepos\fR \fB\-r\fR \fIrev\fR [\fB\-f\fR \fIconfig\fR]

.B svn-mailer
\fB\-\-propchange\fR \fB\-d\fR \fIrepos\fR \fB\-r\fR \fIrev\fR \fB\-a\fR \fIauthor\fR \fB\-n\fR \fIpropname\fR
    [\fB\-o\fR \fIaction\fR] [\fB\-f\fR \fIconfig\fR]

.B svn-mailer
\fB\-\-lock\fR \fB\-d\fR \fIrepos\fR \fB\-a\fR \fIauthor\fR [\fB\-f\fR \fIconfig\fR]

.B svn-mailer
\fB\-\-unlock\fR \fB\-d\fR \fIrepos\fR \fB\-a\fR \fIauthor\fR [\fB\-f\fR \fIconfig\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The svnmailer package is a tool to post notifications of subversion events to
various targets in different ways.  Currently implemented: Mail via SMTP or
a sendmail pipe, news via NNTP, XML via XMLRPC to a CIA tracker (see
http://cia.navi.cx/ for details).

The \fBsvn\-mailer\fR command line script is typically invoked via
subversion's hook mechanism, but you can run it manually as well.  This is
useful to resend missing messages or for debugging purposes.  Remember
to start it under the correct user/group id.  Otherwise it may have problems
to open the repository or the config file.

The svnmailer can be used in most cases as a drop-in replacement for
\fImailer.py\fR distributed with subversion.  There are some subtle differences
which are dedicated to more behavior consistency.  (Hopefully) all of them are
stated in the HTML documentation.
.SS GENERAL OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
show program's version number and exit
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show a help message and exit
.SS COMMON PARAMETERS
.TP
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Run in debug mode (means basically that all messages are
sent to STDOUT)
.TP
\fB\-dREPOSITORY\fR, \fB\-\-repository\fR=\fIREPOSITORY\fR
The repository directory
.TP
\fB\-fCONFIG\fR, \fB\-\-config\fR=\fICONFIG\fR
The configuration file
.TP
\fB\-ePATH_ENCODING\fR, \fB\-\-path\-encoding\fR=\fIPATH_ENCODING\fR
Specifies the character encoding to be used for
filenames. By default the encoding is tried to be
determined automatically depending on the locale.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-background\fR
Lets the mailer do its work in the background. That way
the hook script can exit faster.
.SS BEHAVIOR OPTIONS
.PP
The behavior options are mutually exclusive, i.e. the last one wins.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-commit\fR
This is a regular commit of versioned data (post-commit hook). This is default.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-propchange\fR
This is a modification of unversioned properties (post-revprop-change hook)
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-lock\fR
(svn 1.2 and later) This is a locking call (post-lock hook). The locked file
names are read from STDIN.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-unlock\fR
(svn 1.2 and later) This is a unlocking call (post-unlock hook). The unlocked
file names are read from STDIN.
.SS SUPPLEMENTAL PARAMETERS
.TP
\fB\-rREVISION\fR, \fB\-\-revision\fR=\fIREVISION\fR
The modified/committed revision number
.TP
\fB\-aAUTHOR\fR, \fB\-\-author\fR=\fIAUTHOR\fR
The author of the modification
.TP
\fB\-nPROPNAME\fR, \fB\-\-propname\fR=\fIPROPNAME\fR
The name of the modified property
.TP
\fB\-oACTION\fR, \fB\-\-action\fR=\fIACTION\fR
(svn 1.2 and later) The property change action. If specified, the old
property value is read from STDIN.
.SH "CONFIGURATION FILES"
If the configuration file is not specified on the command line it is searched
at default locations. The first one found is loaded. The locations are, in
order: \fIsvnmailer.conf\fR in the \fIconf/\fR directory of the given
repository, \fIsvnmailer.conf\fR in the script directory itself,
\fI/etc/svnmailer.conf\fR.
.SH OLD STYLE COMMAND LINE
Alternatively you can use the old style compatibility command lines (options
described above don't apply then):

\fBsvn\-mailer\fR \fBcommit\fR \fIrepos\fR \fIrev\fR [\fIconfig\fR]

\fBsvn\-mailer\fR \fBpropchange\fR \fIrepos\fR \fIrev\fR \fIauthor\fR \fIpropname\fR [\fIconfig\fR]

With svn 1.2 and later:
.br
\fBsvn\-mailer\fR \fBpropchange2\fR \fIrepos\fR \fIrev\fR \fIauthor\fR
\fIpropname\fR \fIaction\fR [\fIconfig\fR]

\fBsvn\-mailer\fR \fBlock\fR \fIrepos\fR \fIauthor\fR [\fIconfig\fR]

\fBsvn\-mailer\fR \fBunlock\fR \fIrepos\fR \fIauthor\fR [\fIconfig\fR]
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
If you've found a bug or have an idea how to improve the svnmailer,
please send a mail to <\fIsvnmailer\-bugs@perlig.de\fR>.
.SH "AUTHOR INFORMATION"
Andr\('e "nd" Malo <nd@perlig.de>, GPG: 0x8103A37E
.SH "SEE ALSO"
The full documentation of the svnmailer package is maintained in HTML form.
You may find it in the \fI/usr/share/docs/svnmailer/\fR directory at your
site or online at <\fIhttp://opensource.perlig.de/svnmailer/\fR>.

For detailed information about subversion, consult the subversion book at
<\fIhttp://svnbook.red-bean.com/\fR>.
